# Lab 13 - Configure email and enable enhanced experience for email attachments

**Objective** - In this Lab, you will enable a Power Apps trial to enhance email experience. You will also configure email attachment size limitations and enable enhanced experience for email attachments.

## Task 1 - Enable Power Apps free trial

1. Open a tab and paste the link of the Power Apps - !!https://powerapps.microsoft.com/!!

2. Click on **Try for free**

    ![](./media/media12/image0.png)

3. Enter the admin email ID and click on **Start free**.

    ![](./media/media12/image05.png)

4. Select the Customer Service Trial environment on top right corner of the home page.

    ![](./media/media12/image2.png)

## Task 2 - Configure the email form order

Email must be enabled for users so they can view and access it. When
email is enabled, it shows as an option on the command bar.

To enable email:

1.  In Power Apps, go to **Settings** \> **Advanced Settings**.

2.  From the top menu, select **Settings** \> **Customizations\>
    Customizations.**

    ![](./media/media12/image3.png)

3.  Select **Customize the System**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/media12/image4.png)

4.  Expand **Entities**.

5.  Select and expand **Email** and then select **Forms**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically generated](./media/media12/image5.png)

6.  On the command bar, select **Form Order**, and then select **Main
    Form Set** from the drop-down list.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/media12/image6.png)

7.  The **Form Order** window appears, which displays the enabled email
    forms that are available. If **Enhanced email** doesn't display at
    the top of the list, use the arrows to move it up so it displays
    first on the list, and then select **OK**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/media12/image7.png)

8.  When you complete your updates, select **Publish All
    Customizations** in the top-left corner to display the changes.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/media12/image8.png)

    ![A white rectangular object with blue text Description automatically
generated](./media/media12/image9.png)

## Task 3 - Enable the enhanced email experience

Enhanced email is the default setting, but you must enable email for
users to access and use the features.

1.  Open your **Copilot Service Admin Center** App.

2.  In the app, go to **Settings** \> **Advanced Settings**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/media12/image10.png)

3.  Select **System** \> **Email Configuration**.

4.  On the **Email Configuration** page select **Email Tracking** tab.

5.  Scroll down to the **Enhanced email for Timeline** section, and then
    select the check box.

    ![](./media/media12/image13.png)

6.  Select **OK** to save your global organizational setting and close
    the window.

## Task 4 - Configure email attachment size limitations

You can manage file size limits for email file attachments by completing
the following steps:

1.  In Power Apps portal, select **Settings \> Advanced Settings.**

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/media12/image14.png)

2.  In the **Settings** window, select **System \> Email Configuration**

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/media12/image15.png)

3.  Select **Email Configuration Settings**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/media12/image16.png)

4.  Scroll down to the **Set file size limit for attachments** section,
    the default value is 5,120. Keep the default value and select **OK**.

    ![](./media/media12/image17.png)

## Task 5 - Change the number of attachments to show per page

You can configure the maximum number of attachments to show per page.
Adjust the settings on the **Formatting** tab of the **List or Chart
properties** dialog. For example, if you set the **Number of
Rows** property to 4, and then have more than four attachments per
email, the rest of the attachments paginate and you can then use the
arrow buttons to view them.

## Task 6 - Manage blocked attachment file types

You can configure the attachment file types you want to block to prevent
users from uploading certain files.

1.  In Power Apps, go to **Advanced settings**.

2.  Select **System** \> **Administration** \> **System Settings**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/media12/image18.png)

    ![](./media/media12/image19.png)

3.  On the **General** tab, scroll down to **Set blocked file extensions
    for attachments**.

4.  You can type one or more file extensions you want to block. Don't make any change for this scenario, Select **OK**

    ![](./media/media12/image20.png)

## Task 7 - Enable enhanced experience for email attachments

You can enable the enhanced email attachment control for forms to
provide a consistent email attachment experience to agents. Do the
following steps:

1.  In Power Apps - !!**https://make.powerapps.com/**!!, select the **Customer
    Service Trial** environment that contains your solution.

2.  Select **Tables**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/media12/image21.png)

3.  Select **Email**.

    ![](./media/media12/image22.png)

4.  Select **Forms** under **Data experiences**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/media12/image23.png)

5.  Select the **Email** form.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/media12/image24.png)

6.  Select **Attachment** and the subgrid displays on the right hand side of
    the page

    ![](./media/media12/image25.png)

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/media12/image26.png)

7.  Scroll down and expand **Components** select **+ Component**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/media12/image27.png)

8.  Select **Get More Components**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/media12/image28.png)

9.  Add **Attachments control** to **Components** in
    the **Attachment** subgrid properties.

10. Enter **Attachments control** and select the option from the list
    and Select **Add**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/media12/image29.png)

    ![](./media/media12/image30.png)

11. **Save and publish** the form.

**Summary** - You enabled Power Apps trial to enhance email experience. You also configured email attachment size limitations and enable enhanced experience for email attachments.
